are you what people are calling a digital
Nomad maybe you're an entrepreneur or a
Creator who's traveling or living on the road
or you're doing van life or maybe you're just
out of the office and you still want to
have the ability to create content and
specifically record podcasts well
then today's episode is for you
I'm going to be sharing you the essential
equipment that you need to get started as a
podcaster or a content creator who's living on
the road who's traveling or someone who's on a
budget and is just trying to get started with the
bare minimum Essentials personally my wife and I
spend every single winter traveling around in our
Airstream trailer and during that time we continue
working we don't just take a sabbatical or take
a break from our Instagram and our businesses
we continue to create content and put out weekly
podcasts and YouTube videos and we do that with
very confined spaces in fact we live in a 20 foot
by seven foot trailer with the two of us and our
two dogs my doberman is back here behind me we
have a very combined space we don't have a lot of
room and we definitely don't have a lot of storage
for extra gear and Equipment here at my home where
we live I have an entire closet just for me and
my equipment and my tech I have an entire office
where I can store all of my gadgets and gear but
when you're on the road you of course don't have
the ability to bring everything with you and also
because we're living on the road you don't want to
bring like the super expensive mic microphone in
the fancy tech gadgets that cost a lot of money
because that stuff's a lot easier to break a lot
easier to lose and even get stolen while you're
traveling maybe internationally or something like
that and so in today's episode I'm going to share
with you some budget finds that I've found over
the past few years on Amazon and a few other sites
as well that will allow you to create content
and record podcasts on the road being mobile
being a nomad and not really having to rely on
a home office and I want to say before we even
get into this list and all these different gadgets
and products it's important to first and foremost
have a direction of where you're headed what's the
podcast going to be about what kind of content are
you going to be creating and all of these other
questions and those are going to be answered in
our next episode of build your tribe that my mom
is going to be doing kind of on the things you
need to know before getting started with a podcast
and specifically a mobile podcast where you're
on the road and so if you're listening to or
watching this on the day that it comes out which
is a Tuesday so if you're one of these super loyal
members of the billiard tribe community and you're
listening to this within the first 48 hours that
it releases then you won't be able to listen to
that follow-up episode yet but if you're anyone
else probably 98 of you watching this video are
going to be watching or listening to this at
the time that my mom has already put out her
episode so make sure to check out that follow-up
episode of build your tribe it'll be the episode
right after this and she'll be breaking down the
things you need to know before getting started and
she has a really awesome perspective of this as
well because for the last five months or so my dad
and my mom have been living on the road themselves
they haven't been traveling around in an Airstream
trailer like my wife and I do instead they have
been Airbnb hopping staying in different major
cities they spent some time in New York in Park
City Utah in Miami Florida and they're actually
going over to Europe this summer so they have a
lot of travel and a lot of experience with this
they did this last summer as well and so she's
been able to maintain I believe it's four or
five or maybe even six podcast episodes per week
while living on the road without losing quality so
in this episode and in her episode we're going to
help you figure out how this is possible first and
foremost you're going to need a way to access the
internet a lot of times we don't even think about
it and we take it for granted because when we're
at home we have our home Wi-Fi but when you're on
the road Wi-Fi speeds can be very variable and
that can be a real Challenge and of course you
could use your phone's mobile hotspot but we don't
all have unlimited data and that hotspot doesn't
always have the strongest signal of course you
could also use like local public libraries or
coffee shops but that Wi-Fi is also not always
super reliable not always super strong and it's
also not always super convenient to go to the
local coffee shop just to upload your podcast
so something that my wife and I did when we were
living in our Airstream trailer is we got mobile
Wi-Fi routers this one right here is the orbic
mobile Wi-Fi router and it's made by Verizon so
you basically just go into a Verizon store you'll
have to set up an account or you can pair it with
your already existing account if you have like
a phone plan with them and then this thing can
offer monthly Wi-Fi up to I believe 150 gigabytes
they are constantly changing what's allowed at T
used to have an unlimited plan but this year in
2023 I haven't been able to find any of these
Wi-Fi carriers that have unlimited Wi-Fi for
mobile routers but with 150 gigabytes per month
that's going to get you able to do most things
you're probably not going to be able to upload
and download a ton of 4K videos but anything else
especially audio based content podcast is going to
be just fine with 150 gigabytes per month another
solid options that we've used in the past is this
Netgear unlocked Wi-Fi router here what's awesome
about this Netgear router is that it's unlocked
so I can purchase a SIM card from a t or from
T-Mobile or from whichever carrier I prefer I can
stick it into this device and then I'll be able to
change basically what carrier what platform this
device is linked to and I will say we actually use
both of these at the same time while on the road
which was great because sometimes the T-Mobile
one would get better reception than the Verizon
one and also that just allowed us to have even
more gigs so this one had 150 this one had 100
so with 250 gigabytes per month we pretty much
never ran out of Wi-Fi next up is an e-sim card
and this one's going to be really important for
you if you're doing international travel this
is one that my mom has done some research into
herself because when you're going from country
to Country it can be challenging to have to pay
like a daily allowance for your International
gigabytes or to upgrade a plan with your normal
phone carrier even though you're only going to
be International for maybe a few weeks so what my
mom has discovered what she's going to be using
while traveling internationally this summer is an
e-sim card made by arilo and this will basically
just allow you to use your phone and access
the internet and do all those other cellular
capabilities while you're traveling abroad next up
is lighting and of course lighting isn't going to
be totally necessary if you're just doing an audio
only podcast but if you're someone who's getting
into YouTube podcasting which we would highly
recommend it's a great place to start and a very
easy way to get in into the world of podcasting
without having to figure out all of the technical
components that are usually involved is lighting
so lighting again is essential and it doesn't have
to be super expensive of course there's sunlight
which is a great natural way a lot of this video
that you're seeing right now is just being
lit Naturally by this window that I have right
here but artificial lighting is also going to be
important if you're filming in variable locations
where you don't always have direct or easy access
to the sun I know during the winter when we were
in our Airstream trailer the windows are very
dimmed they're very tinted and of course it's
the winter so a lot of times we're in Cloudy snowy
environments and so I needed a light that would
kind of allow me to change up the temperature
and the brightness of the environment that I
was in this light that I found is a really awesome
portable light this light is called the amarion MC
it comes with this convenient little carrying case
and I believe it runs for around fifty dollars on
Amazon it also comes with this nice rubber cover
which allows you to kind of diffuse the light and
make it a little bit softer and it has a ton of
different options and customization on it so you
can change the different tones the brightnesses
and I believe you can even change the color of
the light so it's not just a white light it can
also do different RGB colors of course I should
say what everyone says in every YouTube video and
every podcast ever which is the links to all of
these products can be found down in the show notes
or the description below this video with links to
where you can purchase each of these items of
course oftentimes when we think of lighting for
videos and content creation we think of ring
lights I have one being used behind my camera
right now but it's 18 inches like it's the size
of a basketball room it's giant it takes up a lot
of space and I can't take that on the road so
I've actually had this mini ring light now for
about seven years and what's awesome about it is
it is USB plug-in so I can plug it right into my
computer and it has a dimmable brightness setting
so I can make it brighter or less bright and it
also has temperature settings so I can make it
a warmer light a little bit more inviting and
relaxing or I can make it a cooler light to kind
of have this crisp white look to it and this ring
light is only about a 10 inch ring light and
that's a good sized generally for most mobile
content creation this light back here that you're
seeing in the circle of this ring light right
here this is my canvas lamp and this is primarily
used for filming desktop and overhead videos but
I actually brought this on the road with us in our
trailer this year and it was a total Game Changer
because this canvas lamp is very easy to move
around and adjust it has multiple arms to kind of
position it right where you want it to be and it's
USB powered and the actual circle is very small
I found it very easy to use while on the road and
I basically just brought one of these desk clamps
with me so I could clamp it onto whatever desk or
setup I was using screw that lamp in and then I
could use it as a portable ring light to really
save space on the road next up is microphones
and microphones make all the difference audio
is half of video when we think about video we
think about lighting and the camera quality in
HD but we forget that half of the video is the
audio that people are listening to and oftentimes
bad audio audio is going to really overcome even
the best HD video quality or actually I should
say that it's going to undermine even the best
video quality it's going to be overpowering for
your listener so it's really important to invest
in a high quality microphone and you can do so
without breaking the bank this microphone right
here is the Shure sm7b and it is not one that I
would recommend if you're getting into recording
podcasts while traveling if you're just starting
your podcast or you're trying to find a microphone
that's budget friendly and available to use while
on the road this thing's expensive it takes a
lot of equipment to get up and running and really
dialed in precisely so my favorite go-to while I'm
on the road is this bad boy right here this is a
seven year old microphone from Amazon that cost me
15 this is made by Boya it's a lavalier microphone
so it can clip onto your shirt you see oftentimes
like mobile news reporters will be wearing these
sort of mics they're great for interviews but I
also find them great for just recording content
even recording podcasts on the road a lot of the
build your tribe episodes that you heard from
the winter of 2023 were actually just recorded
on this cheap little 15 microphone and they sound
great and my favorite thing about this microphone
besides the fact that it's seven years old and
it's still working besides the fact that it
was only 15 is the super long extension cord in
fact it has a 10 foot long extension cord which
is great because then I can set up my phone or my
camera far away and then I can put some distance
between myself and the camera another super high
quality brand of microphones is blue microphones
this is the Yeti microphone it's a little bit big
and overkill for being on the road but I find it
relatively simple to just loosen up these dials on
the side here and then all you have to do is swing
it down and it kind of condenses relatively small
I mean it's only about the size of a toiletry bag
which is actually what I store my mic in and this
blue microphone will give you great audio quality
while on the road they also have a nano Yeti
microphone which is just like this one just a
little bit smaller a little bit more condensed
both of these microphones are USB plug-ins you
can plug them right into your computer or your
recorder and the Nano microphone also has great
quality it's less expensive and of course it takes
up less space another piece of audio that I want
to talk about that isn't necessarily a single
piece of equipment is just being thoughtful of
your sound environment and specifically trying
to create a soft sound environment a hard sound
environment is one that has a lot of Echoes think
about like walls that are made of rock inside of
a cave are going to cause the sound to bounce
off of them and that's a very harsh environment
and it sounds really bad I promise every TV show
every movie every song you listen to doesn't have
this awkward Echo unless it's intentionally being
used to create some kind of effect right and they
do this through creating soft sound environments
oftentimes you see in podcast Studios like The
Joe Rogan Experience or any popular YouTube
channels you'll see these kind of panels made
of foam that are on the walls and those are two
quote unquote dampen the sound sound or make it
softer essentially the sound waves get trapped
and caught in those foam panels rather than just
bouncing off the walls and so what does this mean
for you while you're on the road don't film in the
corner of a room don't film in the closet don't
film in the completely aluminum Airstream trailer
or else you're going to get a really echoey sound
some products that you can use to dampen the sound
besides the foam panels that we've already talked
about is rugs blankets and just pillows anything
that's kind of soft if you use soft things they
will soften the sound so something that I like to
do is put rugs on the ground I like to record my
podcasts and my YouTube videos in rooms that are
carpeted and sometimes you can even place pillows
and even foam mattresses if that's available to
you or like cushions from the the couch just
putting those kind of on the walls around where
you're recording your audio is going to improve
the audio quality this next item isn't really
a necessity but it's something that can really
spice up your content and make it more branded
more more professional and just a little bit more
interesting from the start and that's having what
we like to call a flag or a signature item for
my mom this is oftentimes her pink microphone
I don't really have one myself but I'm thinking
about ways that I can incorporate this into my
own setup into my own YouTube studio and podcast
studio and it's essentially just something that's
going to be in every video maybe it's your Pokemon
card collection or a flag that you display in the
background maybe it's a plant that we're gonna
mention in your videos and we're going to talk
about you know how it's growing in every single
episode maybe it's a custom mug or a stuffed
animal or a neon sign that's in the background of
your video something that maybe is lightweight and
portable so you can bring it with you on the road
and it's kind of a cool thing for your audience to
see that this signature item is in every single
video whether you're filming in Morocco Mexico
or Montana all right now let's talk about the
video component and camera quality you do not
need to buy a camera in order to get started with
podcasting even you YouTube podcasting right now
I'm filming on a great mobile camera the Sony
zve E10 is my go-to camera but admittedly it is
expensive and it's not necessary when you're just
getting started especially considering that all of
us now have smartphones and our smartphones have
great camera quality every single smartphone made
in the last few years can shoot in HD and most
of them can also shoot in 4k which is more than
you'll need so your phone is plenty good enough
camera quality if you're just getting started
some Pro tips for using your phone is first and
foremost ladies make sure to clean off your camera
lens grab a rag grab your T-shirt and just wipe
off your camera lens and yes I say ladies because
I've seen that this is mainly a problem for women
who might be wearing makeup and listen men can
wear makeup too no shame in that but oftentimes
it's women who are wearing makeup and they're
not realizing that the makeup is smudging onto
their camera lens and it's creating a really
blurry video I can't tell you how many times I've
had to clean off my mom's camera because it has
some sort of makeup on the camera lens so just
make sure to clean your camera lens make sure
to check your phone settings to make sure that you
are filming in the highest quality video and then
always use the back cam rather than the selfie cam
the selfie cam is HD but it's oftentimes not going
to be as crisp or have as many pixels as that back
cam so use the back Cam and then what I like to do
is because I have an iPhone and because I have
my Apple watch is you can actually sync them up
and you can use the camera app on your watch as a
viewfinder to see what your camera is looking at
so I can look into my watch and I can see what my
back camera is seeing without having to constantly
run back and forth and check what's on the screen
and make sure I'm in frame and then besides just
your phone a webcam or the built-in camera on your
laptop is a great second cam so something I like
to do oftentimes when I'm filming on the road
is I'll have my phone set up as my main camera
filming me as kind of my camera a but then I'll
have my laptop maybe off to the side fill filming
as a second angle and I can kind of cut back and
forth between these two angles and make the video
a little bit more Dynamic rather than just having
one angle the entire time where I'm constantly
looking at the camera instead I can occasionally
cut in the second angle where I'm not looking at
the camera and it just makes you feel like you're
in the room and it allows you to see some unique
looks and just stay a little bit more Dynamic
and engaged another piece of essential equipment
is going to be a tripod and these can really vary
in terms of quality and price some of my favorite
are by UB size that's kind of on the cheaper
and the less expensive option and then some of
my favorite tripods that I have that I bought
for my wife now that I use almost exclusively
are made by geekodo but honestly you're going to
find hundreds of tripod options on Amazon and you
probably can't go wrong if you're looking for a
professional setup then you're going to want to
invest an extra Buck but if you're just filming
on the road and you're looking for a lightweight
portable tripod oftentimes the cheaper options
on Amazon are going to be made of of plastic so
they might not be as durable but they're going to
be really lightweight oftentimes smaller and more
collapsible if you had to pick only one piece
of equipment from everything I've listed today
I would recommend starting with a microphone and
even that again doesn't have to break the bank
you could get one like I got seven years ago
for fifteen dollars and that's enough to start
your first podcast with that and the phone that
you likely already have you're good to go once
you start to level up from there you can start to
invest in more expensive microphones into better
quality Equipment nicer tripods better lighting
better cameras but if you're just getting started
and especially if you're someone who is getting
started on a budget I really want to encourage
you to to just get started with what you have
make the most of the equipment that is already
in your repertoire already in your tool belt if
you're able to actually learn to use these tools
to your maximum capabilities you're going to be
really surprised at the quality of content you can
produce without spending more than 20 bucks it is
totally possible to be a digital Nomad to be a con
content creator a vlogger a YouTuber a podcaster
while living on the road full time whether you're
Airbnb hopping you're living in an RV or you're
just traveling from hostile to hostel with only
the backpack on your shoulders it is definitely
possible to not just create all this content and
it is possible to earn an income without breaking
the bank on the equipment that you're using again
make sure to check out the next episode of
build your tribe where my mom's going to be
talking about the important things you need to
know before getting started because that's going
to be really really helpful for you beyond just
the equipment and if you enjoyed today's video
make sure to leave a like because it costs you
nothing and it really helps us reach more people
and if you want more content like this make sure
to subscribe to build your tribe where we are
helping you grow and make money on social media
with online entrepreneurship thank you so much
for watching and listening today I appreciate
you so much and as always happy networking
thank you
[Music]